ScholarOne Manuscripts™
JIAS Editorial Office 
Instructions & Forms
Help
Log Out

 Home
 Author
 Review
 Manage 
Admin Dashboard / Awaiting Deputy Editor Assignment / Details for JIAS-2020-03-0146 Search
Manuscript ID  
Search




	This section of the manuscript details usually includes the Manuscript Checklist, the author-supplied metadata, and add additional data as needed to complete the check-in process. If a companion paper should accompany the review of this paper, you can search for and link the two papers by using the companion paper feature on the Details tab.   Read More ...
 
	
	
Assign DE








No Notes Added
Add A Note
 

	
JIAS-2020-03-0146

Submitted: 06-Mar-2020; Last Updated: 10-Mar-2020; 3 days, 21 hours in review
	
Population prevalence of sexually transmitted infections: Implication for HIV epidemic control in a generalized hyper-endemic setting

	
Kharsany, Ayesha (proxy) (contact); McKinnon, Lyle; Lewis, Lara; Cawood, Cherie; Khanyile, David; Maseko, Domiciled; Goodman, Tawni; Beckett, Sean; Govender, Kaymarlin; George, Gavin; Ayalew, Kassahun; Toledo, Carlos

	
Research Article

	
Wiley - Manuscript id of previous submission:  

	
Assign DE (Due 17-Mar-2020)

DE: Not Assigned
EIC: Editorial Office, JIAS
ADM: Watson, Hannah (proxy)

   HTML    PDF     Supplemental Files   Original Files     Abstract     Cover Letter     External Searches   

 

 
	
- Peer Review Milestones


Date Submitted:

06-Mar-2020
 
Admin:

Watson, Hannah  AU REV VIEW ADM PROD 
proxy	
Date to Admin:

06-Mar-2020

Admin:

 Admin	
Date to Admin:

10-Mar-2020

Editor-in-Chief:

Editorial Office, JIAS  AU REV DE EIC ADM VIEW PROD 	
Date to Editor-in-Chief:

10-Mar-2020



 
	
- Duplicate Submission Check


This feature searches other submissions to this site and displays a relevancy % on both the manuscript title and the full author list to help identify potential duplicate submissions. The manuscript with the highest relevancy % on both title and author list will be displayed first.



 
	
- Version History


 

Manuscript ID

Manuscript Title

Date Submitted

Decision Letter & Response

Switch
Details

	
JIAS-2020-03-0146

Population prevalence of sexually transmitted infections: Implication for HIV epidemic control in a generalized hyper-endemic setting

06-Mar-2020

 

 
	
- Author-Supplied Data


Wiley - Manuscript type:

Research Article

Title:

Population prevalence of sexually transmitted infections: Implication for HIV epidemic control in a generalized hyper-endemic setting

Manuscript ID:

JIAS-2020-03-0146

Funding Information:

Centres for Diseases Control and Prevention, President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief   x
U2GGH000372-02W1

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services >
National Institutes of Health
R01HD083343


Submitting Author:

		
	Kharsany, Ayesha BM  (proxy)
	
primary affiliation
Professor
Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA)
2nd Floor DDMRI Building 719 umbilo Road Durban KwaZulu-Natal 4037
South Africa
T: +27 31 2604558

Authors & Institutions:

 

Kharsany, Ayesha BM
proxy
Corresponding Author
 https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7457-0194

 		
Professor
Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA)
2nd Floor DDMRI Building 719 Umbilo Road, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4037
South Africa

 	 	
Professor
Nelson R. Mandela School of Medicine, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa - School of Laboratory Medicine & Medical Sciences
719 Umbilo Road , Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4037
South Africa


McKinnon, Lyle R
proxy
 https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7157-0700

 		
Assistant Professor
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada - Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
745 Bannatyne Ave , Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0J9
Canada

 	 	
Professor
Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA)
2nd Floor DDMRI Building 719 umbilo Road, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4037
South Africa


Lewis, Lara
proxy	 		
Ms
Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA)
2nd Floor DDMRI Building 719 Umbilo Road, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4037
South Africa


Cawood, Cherie
proxy	 		
Mrs
Epicentre AIDS Risk Management (Pty) Limited
Cape Town
South Africa


Khanyile, David
proxy	 		
Mr
Epicentre AIDS Risk Management (Pty) Limited
Cape Town
South Africa


Maseko, Domiciled Venessa
proxy	 		
Ms
National Institute for Communicable Diseases, National Health Laboratory Service - Centre for HIV and STIs
Johannesburg, Gauteng
South Africa


Goodman, Tawni C
proxy	 		
Ms
Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA)
2nd Floor DDMRI Building 719 Umbilo Road, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4037
South Africa


Beckett, Sean Edward
proxy	 		
Mr
University of KwaZulu-Natal Ringgold standard institution - Health Economics & HIV & AIDS Research Division
University Rd Westville, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4041
South Africa


Govender, Kaymarlin
proxy	 		
Professor
University of KwaZulu-Natal Ringgold standard institution - Health Economics & HIV & AIDS Research Division
University Rd Westville, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4041
South Africa


George, Gavin
proxy	 		
Dr
University of KwaZulu-Natal Ringgold standard institution - Health Economics & HIV & AIDS Research Division
University Rd Westville, Durban, KwaZulu-Natal 4041
South Africa


Ayalew, Kassahun
proxy	 		
Mr.
Center for Disease Control and Prevention - Strategic Information Unit
Pretoria, Gauteng 0181
South Africa


Toledo, Carlos
proxy	 		
Dr
US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Division of Global HIV and Tuberculosis
1600 Clifton Rd. NE MS E-04, Atlanta, Georgia 30033
United States

Contact Author (populates the ##PROLE_AUTHOR_..## e-mail tags):

		 	
Current Contact Author: Kharsany, Ayesha BM
(proxy)

Running Head:

STIs and HIV epidemic control

Discipline:

Epidemiology

Keywords:

Sexually transmitted infections/diseases, Africa < Region, HIV prevention

Additional Keywords:

HIV viral load  , HIV acquisition  , HIV transmission 

Author Recommended Reviewers:

Leigh Johnson University of Cape Town, Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiolo - leigh.johnson@uct.ac.za, Expert in the field of HIV and STI modelling

Author Opposed Reviewers:

Author's Cover Letter:

3 March 2020
Editors
Prof. Kenneth H. Mayer and Dr. Annette Sohn
Journal of the International AIDS Society (JIAS)

Re: Population prevalence of sexually transmitted infections: Implication for HIV epidemic control in a generalized hyper-endemic setting
On behalf of all the authors, I respectfully submit the enclosed original manuscript for consideration by the Journal of the International AIDS Society (JIAS). All authors have read and approved the final version, have met the criteria for authorship as established by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors and take full responsibility for the preparation of the manuscript.
South Africa has a high burden of HIV with the province of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) severely affected. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) also contribute to significant morbidity and increase the risk of HIV acquisition and transmission. Whilst reports on STIs are available from select populations, there is no information from large scale population-based surveys that measured the prevalence of STIs.
We established the HIV Incidence Provincial Surveillance System, an HIV surveillance platform in a geographically defined region in KZN to assess the impact of HIV prevention and treatment strategies in a "real world", non-trial setting on HIV prevalence and incidence. One of the objectives was to measure the prevalence of STIs among 15-49 years old males and females. This was the first study undertaken at a population-level that enhanced our understanding of the prevalence of curable STIs and HSV-2 in a setting that already has a high burden of HIV. The collection of first-pass urine (males) or self-collected vulvovaginal swabs (females) in the field was feasible and enabled the diagnosis Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, Trichomonas vaginalis, Mycoplasma genitalium using molecular-based multiplex PCR assay, whilst sera were tested for antibodies to syphilis, herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) and HIV. This study showed the overall prevalence of all STIs to be high; higher in females than in males, except for M. genitalium and higher among HIV-positive individuals apart from C. trachomatis. The prevalence of HSV-2 antibodies was unprecedented with a prevalence of 46·1% in males and 68·8% in females.
This study showed that the prevalence of curable STIs, HSV-2, and HIV was high. These findings have important public health implications and underline the value of population-based surveillance to monitor STIs towards improving STI and HIV related morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, the observed positive association between STIs and HIV viral load and indicates that the high burden of STIs has the potential to sustain the epidemic and threaten efforts towards achieving HIV epidemic control in the region. Therefore, this study provides empiric evidence to researchers or clinicians on the critical importance of monitoring the burden of STIs, improving diagnosis and management for public health benefit and more importantly to reduce the transmission and acquisition of HIV.
This research has not been published in this or a substantially similar form (in print or electronically, including on a web site), nor accepted for publication elsewhere, nor is it under consideration by another journal. The protocol, informed consent, and data collection forms were reviewed and approved by the Biomedical Research Ethics Committee of the University of KwaZulu-Natal, (Reference number BF269/13), and the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Department of Health (HRKM 08/14) and the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Department of Health (HRKM 08/14). The protocol was also reviewed in accordance with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), United States of America human research protection procedures and was determined to be research, but CDC investigators did not interact with human subjects or have access to identifiable data or specimens for research purposes. The study meets all ethical guidelines and legal requirements.
CAPRISA was established through a CIPRA grant from the NIH (Grant # U19AI51794), as a multi-institutional collaboration, incorporated as an independent non-profit AIDS Research Organization. The NIH requires that published results arising from NIH funds be made available to the public within 12 months of publication. We, therefore, request that the authors of this manuscript retain the right to provide a copy of the final manuscript to the NIH upon acceptance for journal publication, for public archiving in PubMed Central as soon as possible but no later than 12 months after publication by Journal of the International AIDS Society. We consider the dissemination of this data highly important, timely and central to scaling up HIV prevention efforts. We look forward to your positive response.

Yours sincerely,

Ayesha BM Kharsany
E mail: Ayesha.kharsany@caprisa.org
If you have been invited to submit an article for a supplement, please select the title of the supplement:

 
Manuscript Details - Metadata (Please use numbers only)
Content Information
 Number of words (excluding the title page, abstract, references, acknowledgements, and wording for tables and figures):	
3600

 Number of manuscript pages:	
30

 Number of tables (use 0 for none):	
5

Illustration Information
 Total number of figures (use 0 for none):	
0

 Number of colour figures (use 0 for none):	
0


 
Publication Charge
 All articles published by Journal of the International AIDS Society are fully open access: immediately freely available to read, download and share. To cover the cost of publishing, Journal of the International AIDS Society charges a publication fee.

The Journal of the International AIDS Society standard publication charge is $2,400/£1850/€2200, except for Letters to the Editor, Viewpoints and Editorials for which there is no charge.
Supplement articles: please select the option "I believe a third-party will pay..." below, and enter JSS as the code (stands for "JIAS Supplement Sponsor").

If your manuscript is accepted, you will be given the option of paying by credit card or invoice. If you believe that payment for your article is covered by a society, institutional or funding agency arrangement, please let us know using the form below.

Not sure if payment for your article could be covered by your institution or funding agency? Use our Institute/Funder Policy Finder tool to check: http://exchanges.wiley.com/authors/oa-policies-by-funder_272.html

Who Will Pay


I accept responsibility for paying the publication charge on this article.

If your manuscript is accepted, you will be able to pay by credit card, invoice, or pro forma.

(Please see the “Discounts That May Apply” section for a list of institutions and funding agencies that have agreed to cover a portion of the publication fees.)
 

I believe a third-party will pay the publication charge for this article.

Some institutions and funding agencies have agreed to be invoiced directly and pay the Wiley Open Access article publication charge (APC) for their affiliated researchers. To check your eligibility, go to http://www.wileyauthors.com/accountcodes and find the affiliated institution or funder of the corresponding author, then copy the code and paste it here.
 	Please enter institution code here:
 	
 	Please enter your funder and grant / project number if your institution requires this information in order to pay the APC:
 	
 

I request a waiver of the publication charge for this article.

We offer a complete or partial fee waiver on a case-by-case basis for individual authors or author groups from countries on the Wiley Open Access Waiver and Discount Country List.. Editorial office comments (internal use)
 	
Discounts That May Apply

Please select from the drop-down menus below for all discounts you wish to claim. Please note that the single, highest discount will apply.
Society Membership Discount
If the Corresponding Author is a member of the International AIDS Society (IAS) and wishes to request a discount (as applicable), please select it from the list below.
If the Corresponding Author is not an IAS member but wishes to apply before submitting, the membership application form is available at: www.iasociety.org/membership. To qualify for the discount, please supply your membership number during original submission. The discount will not be applied if you become a member after original submission, or if you suspend your membership before acceptance of your manuscript.
Please enter the society membership ID number of the corresponding author so we can verify your membership. If you don't know your membership ID you can request this from memberservice@iasociety.org:
For office use only: Society Discount Code
Institutional Discount
The institutions or funding agencies listed below have agreed to cover a portion of the article publication charges in Wiley Open Access Journals for their affiliated researchers. If you are a corresponding author affiliated with one of the organizations listed, please select it from the list below:
Other Discount
If you have received another type of discount code, such as a promotional discount code via e-mail or brochure, please enter it below:
Eligibility for institutional payment via Wiley Open Access account/partnership is based on the date of submission of an article. If your institution ceases to have an active account/partnership arrangement prior to completion of the article submission process, your article will not be eligible for institutional/funder payment.

 
Submission Information - Confirm the following:
 Confirm that the manuscript has been submitted solely to this journal and is not published, in press, or submitted elsewhere.	



 
Conflict of Interest
Journal of the International AIDS Society requires that all authors disclose any potential sources of conflict of interest. Any interest or relationship, financial or otherwise, that might be perceived as influencing an author’s objectivity is considered a potential source of conflict of interest. These must be disclosed when directly relevant or indirectly related to the work that the authors describe in their manuscript. Potential sources of conflict of interest include but are not limited to patent or stock ownership, membership of a company board of directors, membership of an advisory board or committee for a company, and consultancy for or receipt of speaker’s fees from a company. The existence of a conflict of interest does not preclude publication in this journal.

If the authors have no conflict of interest to declare, they must also state this at submission. It is the responsibility of the corresponding author to review this policy with all authors and to collectively list in the cover letter (if applicable) to the Editor-in-Chief, in the manuscript (in the footnotes, Conflict of Interest or Acknowledgments section), and in the online submission system ALL pertinent commercial and other relationships.
 Do you or any of your co-authors have a conflict of interest to declare?
No

Confirm that you have stated this conflict of interest in the footnotes, Conflict of Interest or Acknowledgments section of your manuscript as required by the Journal (see the Instructions to Authors).
(Confirmed)

Provide details and include this information below.

 
Previously Submitted to Journal of the International AIDS Society
 Has this manuscript previously
- been submitted via Journal of the International AIDS Society's previous submission site and is now being submitted either for final acceptance or after revision
- been submitted via the Journal of the International AIDS Society ScholarOne Manuscripts submission website and received a revision decision [revised papers should be submitted as “revisions” and not as “new” papers]
- been submitted to Journal of the International AIDS Society and been rejected?
If either of the above is true please answer "Yes".	
No

If yes, please state previous Journal of the International AIDS Society Manuscript ID:

 
Open Access Agreement
 Confirm that all authors of this submission have read and understood the journal's policy concerning the completion of the Open Access Agreement. This form will be requested if your paper is accepted. Further information can be found in the journal's Author Guidelines.	



 
Supporting Information
 We allow submission of "Supporting Information". Go to https://authorservices.wiley.com/author-resources/Journal-Authors/Prepare/supporting-information.html to access the Wiley guidelines for the submission of Supporting Information. If you wish to submit Supporting Information, please select the file designation “Supporting Information for review and publication” when uploading your files. Please note that we would encourage you, where possible and appropriate, to include such information in an Appendix in your main document instead of designating it as Supporting Information.

Does your submission include any supporting information files for publication?
 

Yes



No


 
 Ethics
 Please insert your ethical statement below. This should include approval by any ethical boards and your consent or consent waiver procedure. If your article does not require an ethical statement (for example if it is a review), please state this. Your ethical statement should also be included in your methods section.
Ethical approvals
The protocol, informed consent and data collection forms were reviewed and approved by the Biomedical Research Ethics Committee of the University of KwaZulu-Natal, (Reference number BF269/13), the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Department of Health (HRKM 08/14) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), United States of America. The study followed the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) reporting guidelines [35].

 
 Dates of data collection
 Please state the dates between which your data was collected. Literature reviews should list when the review was completed and the dates of the literature reviewed. This information should also be included in the methods section of your main article and abstract.
June 2014-June2015


 
 

 
	
- Plagiarism Check iThenticate User Guide


Crossref Similarity Check logo	
Overall Similarity Index Percentage:23%

Report complete. View the Originality Report.

 

 
	
- Forward to Viewing


Viewing

 
	
- Forward to Admin


 Watson, Hannah  (assign a different person)

 
	
- Admin Checklist (Date Completed: 10-Mar-2020 )


Is the submission complete, are all files submitted in an acceptable format and is the manuscript ready for review?	


 Has the author requested a fee waiver?	


Have all co-author names been uploaded by the submitting author?	


Is the manuscript within the scope of/suitable for the journal?	


Does the manuscript main document include keywords?	


If the author has claimed a society membership discount, has membership been verified and society discount code provided (Manuscript Information tab>Author-Supplied Data>Edit This Information)?	


Supplement articles only: Has author selected "JIAS Supplement Sponsor" as their funder? Is manuscript on list of expected supplemental articles? If yes, copy Supplement Title into "Comments to Payment Administrator" below. If no, unsubmit paper and ask author to select another payment option.	



 
Comments to Payment Administrator:
  


 

 
	
- Export History 


Export Method

Date Exported

History

Remove

Batch:
Submitted ms export

10-Mar-2020

Exported to file jias-2020-03-0146-20200310053902.zip
Successfully uploaded jias-2020-03-0146-20200310053902.zip via FTP file to ftp.wiley.com.




 
Assign to Batch:

	
Export Now:


 
	
- Editor-in-Chief List


Order

Name

Status

History

Remove

 

	
 Editorial Office, JIAS
(assign a different person)

 

Assigned (10-Mar-2020)



 
	
- EIC Decision


Make a Decision

	
Accept

	
Minor Revision

	
Major Revision

	
Reject

	
Reject without Review

Decision comments (internal use only):

		
 	
Reviews

 

 
 
	
- Assign to Issue


Not assigned to issue.

Assign to:




 
	
- Companion Papers


Manuscript ID

Manuscript Title

Date Submitted

Author

Status

Delete

Type




 
	
- Flag This Manuscript


	
Leave this manuscript unflagged

	  Accepted Manuscript	 		  Plagiarism check needed
	  	 		  
	  .R2	 		  
	  	 		  Resubmission
	  	 		  .R1
	  TDA with Reports	 		  TDA without Reports
	  	 		  
	  	 


 
	
- Notes


Note Title

Updated By

Updated On

Edit

Delete

This document has no notes.





ScholarOne logoClarivate Analytics logo
© Clarivate Analytics |  © ScholarOne, Inc., 2020. All Rights Reserved.
ScholarOne Manuscripts and ScholarOne are registered trademarks of ScholarOne, Inc.
ScholarOne Manuscripts Patents #7,257,767 and #7,263,655.

 @ScholarOneNews  |   System Requirements  |   Privacy Statement  |   Terms of Use

 Admin: configure instructions | 